**Group 6** <br>
Brian Lie Wei Siong <br>
Chang Jian Xian <br>
Robin Yong Wei Qiang <br>

# Intoduction
The goal of this mini-project is to create a reliable way for consumers to buy diamonds that are accurately priced to ensure that they are not being over charged. <br><br>
We do this by predicting the cost of a diamond based on various measurable attributes through the use of linear regression. Using the coefficents generated by the linear regression model, we have created a simple web application where users are able to set their budget for a diamond, and a slider will be available for them to adjust different attributes of a diamond to see if a diamond that matches said attributes is beyond their budget. This web application is available at https://bit.ly/sc1015-mp-slider. <br><br>

A video is also available at https://bit.ly/SC1015-mp-video for more information regarding this project.

# Dataset
The dataset that we have chosen to use is one of the largest diamond dataset currently on Kaggle, available at https://bit.ly/SC1015-mp-dataset.

This dataset include records of over 200,000 diamonds and their prices. The following are a brief description (extracted from Kaggle) of each of the columns from the dataset.<br><br>
``cut`` refers to one of the 10 or so most common diamond cuts. This dataset has an additional one called the 'Cushion Modified'. <br>
``color`` Clear diamonds are graded D-Z. The higher letters more yellowish but are often better values since color is hard to determine once in a ring. <br>
``clarity`` refers the inclusions (i.e., internal flaws) in the diamonds seen though a jewelers loupe or microscope. Fewer and smaller are better. <br>
``carat_weight`` Refers to the mass of the diamond. It's loosely connected with dimension of a diamond but ``cut`` and ``cut_quality`` tends to play an equally large if not larger role. <br>
``cut_quality`` refers the GIA Cut Grading System which was developed in 2005 and is de facto standard. <br>
``lab`` is the grading lab. The big three are GIA, IGI and HRD. Each diamond gets a lab certificate that looks like this.
``polish`` and ``symmetry`` are what you would expect. <br>
``eye-clean`` refers to the blemishes or inclusions can see with a the naked eye. There are 10 grades. <br>
``culet_size`` is the size of the circle you'd see if you looked straight down. None is ideal because it affects the amount of light that gets reflected. <br>
``culet_condition`` indicates if the culet has any chipping, which is why some diamonds don't close to a point but rather a very small flat spot. <br>
``fancy_color_`` columns have to do with colored diamonds. Formerly, extremely rare but now common, popular, and almost always lab grown. <br>
``fluor`` columns refer to the effect of long wave UV light. According to GIA 25-35% have it; for ~10% of those it's noticeable to an expert. <br>
``depth_percentandtable_percent`` are the relative measurements of the flat part of the top and the depth. This varies somewhat by cut. <br>
``meas_length``, ``meas_width``, ``meas_depth`` are the absolute measurements of stone. <br>
``girdle min/max`` are where the id of a stone is engraved they also are where the meets the setting and play a role in reflection. There are 9 values ranging from extremely thin to extremely thick <br>
``total_sales_price`` is priced in dollars.

# Linear Regression
Among the numerous columns, we chose ``cut``, ``carat_weight``, & ``meas_width`` to predict ``total_sales_price`` due to their strong corelation.